Light travels faster than sound. This is why some people appear bright until you hear them speak.
Sometimes I wonder, 'Why is that frisbee getting bigger?' And then it hits me.
Trees also help to keep our air clean and our ecosystems healthy. We breathe in oxygen and breathe out carbon dioxide. Trees breathe in carbon dioxide and breathe out oxygen. We're perfect partners!
Evergreen trees don't lose all of their leaves at the same time -- they always have some foliage. They do lose their leaves a little at a time with new ones growing in to replace the old but a healthy evergreen tree is never completely without leaves.
The branches provide the support to distribute the leaves efficiently for the type of tree and the environment. They also serve as conduits for water and nutrients and as storage for extra sugar.
The trunk of the tree provides its shape and support and holds up the crown. The trunk transports water and nutrients from the soil and sugar from the leaves.
Primary colors cannot be made from other colors. Artists create all the other colors of the rainbow by mixing together the primary colors.
Secondary colors are made by mixing two primary colors. Each secondary color is made from the two primary colors closest to it on the color wheel.
Mercury takes 59 days to make a rotation but only 88 days to circle the Sun. That means that there are fewer than 2 days in a year!
Many astronomers believe that Mercury might be the core of what was once a much larger planet -- it appears to be a huge ball of iron covered by a thin layer of rock.
Venus is the brightest planet in our sky and can sometimes be seen with the naked eye if you know where to look. It is the solar system's brightest planet -- yellow clouds of sulfuric acid reflect the sun's light.
Earth has more exposed water than land. Three quarters of the Earth is covered by water! The earth has one moon.
Mars is the home of "Olympus Mons", the largest volcano found in the solar system. It stands about 27 kilometers high with a crater 81 kilometers wide.
Jupiter is the largest planet in the solar system, but it spins very quickly on its axis. A day on Jupiter lasts only 9 hours and 55 minutes. Ack, I get dizzy just thinking about it!
Saturn is the second biggest planet, but it’s also the lightest planet. If there was a bathtub big enough to hold Saturn, it would float in the water!
Uranus’ axis is at a 97 degree angle, meaning that it orbits lying on its side! Talk about a lazy planet.
Like Jupiter, Neptune has a dark spot caused by a storm. Neptune's spot is smaller than Jupiter's -- it is only about the size of the planet earth.
water cycle dinosaurThe water in your glass may have fallen from the sky as rain just last week, but the water itself has been around pretty much as long as the earth has!
When I look in the mirror, the second thing I see is my mouth. I use my mouth for smiling, eating, drinking, talking and laughing. I can even use my mouth for breathing!
When we get older our teeth start to grow -- this is our first set of "baby teeth". Sometimes when we are children we forget to take care of our teeth -- we don't brush them when we should.
When I look in the mirror, I can see my nose. My nose has two holes in it. I breathe in air through these holes. Sometimes my nose gets stuffy -- especially when I'm sick or it's cold outside. I use a kleenex to blow my nose. Have you ever had a stuffy nose?
When I look in the mirror, I can see my ears. I have to turn my head to see them well. I use my ears to hear the world. I can hear music playing and a dog barking right now.
If I look very closely at my skin I can see little holes. These are my pores. When I am hot, salty water called sweat comes out of my pores to cool me off. When I am cold, my pores shrink to try to keep me warm.